<html>
<head>
	<title></title>
</head>

<body>


/* 
====================================================================<BR>&nbsp;* 
Copyright (c) 2001 American Radio Relay League, Inc. (ARRL) 
and<BR>&nbsp;*&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Darryl Wagoner WA1GON.&nbsp; All 
rights reserved.<BR>&nbsp;*<BR>&nbsp;* Redistribution and use in source and 
binary forms, with or without<BR>&nbsp;* modification, are permitted provided 
that the following conditions<BR>&nbsp;* are met:<BR>&nbsp;*<BR>&nbsp;* 1. 
Redistribution of source code must retain the above 
copyright<BR>&nbsp;*&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; notice, this list of conditions and the 
following disclaimer.<BR>&nbsp;*<BR>&nbsp;* 2. Redistribution in binary form 
must reproduce the above copyright<BR>&nbsp;*&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; notice, this 
list of conditions and the following disclaimer in<BR>&nbsp;*&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 
the documentation and/or other materials provided with 
the<BR>&nbsp;*&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; distribution.<BR>&nbsp;*<BR>&nbsp;* 3. All 
advertising materials mentioning features or use of 
this<BR>&nbsp;*&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; software must display the following 
acknowledgment:<BR>&nbsp;*&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; "This product includes software 
developed by the ARRL and Darryl<BR>&nbsp;*&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Wagoner WA1GON for 
use in the ARRL Logbook Of The World<BR>&nbsp;*&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; project (<A 
href="http://www.trustedQSL.org">http://www.trustedQSL.org</A>)."&nbsp; Also 
acknowledgment of<BR>&nbsp;*&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; the OpenSSL 
Project.<BR>&nbsp;*<BR>&nbsp;* 4. The names "Logbook of The World" and "ARRL" 
must not be used as<BR>&nbsp;*&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; an endorsement of products 
derived from this software without<BR>&nbsp;*&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; prior written 
permission. For written permission, please contact<BR>&nbsp;*&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 
<A href="mailto:jbloom@arrl.org">jbloom@arrl.org</A>.<BR>&nbsp;*<BR>&nbsp;* 5. 
Products derived from this software may not be called 
"LoTW"<BR>&nbsp;*&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; nor may "LoTW" appear in their names without 
prior written<BR>&nbsp;*&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; permission of the 
ARRL.<BR>&nbsp;*<BR>&nbsp;* 6. Redistribution of any form whatsoever must retain 
the following<BR>&nbsp;*&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 
acknowledgment:<BR>&nbsp;*&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; "This product includes software 
developed by the ARRL and<BR>&nbsp;*&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Darryl Wagoner WA1GON for 
use in the Logbook of The World project<BR>&nbsp;*<BR>&nbsp;* THIS SOFTWARE IS 
PROVIDED BY THE&nbsp; ARRL ``AS IS'' AND ANY<BR>&nbsp;* EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED 
WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE<BR>&nbsp;* IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF 
MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR<BR>&nbsp;* PURPOSE ARE 
DISCLAIMED.&nbsp; IN NO EVENT SHALL THE ARRL OR<BR>&nbsp;* ITS CONTRIBUTORS BE 
LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,<BR>&nbsp;* SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR 
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT<BR>&nbsp;* NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF 
SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES;<BR>&nbsp;* LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR 
BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)<BR>&nbsp;* HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, 
WHETHER IN CONTRACT,<BR>&nbsp;* STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE 
OR OTHERWISE)<BR>&nbsp;* ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, 
EVEN IF ADVISED<BR>&nbsp;* OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.<BR>&nbsp;* 
====================================================================<BR>&nbsp;*<BR>&nbsp;* 
This software consists of voluntary contributions made by many<BR>&nbsp;* 
individuals on behalf of the ARRL.&nbsp; For more information on<BR>&nbsp;* the 
"Logbook of The World" project&nbsp; and the ARRL project,<BR>&nbsp;* please see 
&lt;<A 
href="http://www.arrl.org/">http://www.arrl.org/</A>&gt;.<BR>&nbsp;*<BR>&nbsp;*/<BR>


</body>
</html>